All right,
to the selector part of the show.
Let's go into our store in this case,
and let's just make a selectors file.
We'll call it selectors.js.
Cool, and reselect,
basically the main one we're gonna
use is one called createSelector.
Again, you saw useSelector
before when we used the hooks,
this is a very similar idea.
A selector is basically something
that takes your large state tree and
gets the parts that you need out of it.
So if you think about from the counter
example we saw with the hooks,
we might have had something
like export const selectItems,
which is just gonna be state.
Equal sign here, state, items.
We saw that before with
the counter before.
Same thing for tip percentage,
we could say selectTipPercentage.
And I'm prefixing them all with select,
that is more of a convention.
Again, you could call them whatever
you want, cuz it's just JavaScript.
selectTipPercentage is
state.TipPercentage, right?
So these are just functions,
they're gonna pull each of those parts of
the state tree off of our Redux state.
There's nothing special about them.
createSelector takes two major arguments,
an array of functions, right?
Very similar to the array that we
would use in use memory, use callback.
And then a function to pass all
the results of those through
to compute your new value.
The trick is, it will look at, for
instance, we pass in selectItems,
selectTipPercentage.
If the return values of these functions
are unchanged, it'll just give you
back the same value it gave last time and
skip the expensive computation.
This is a cheap computation in our case,
but
if this was a more expensive computation,
it becomes a lot cheaper,
cuz we're not running it over and
over and over again.
The other thing is, I would really,
really, really push you to use selectors,
even there as simple as this one,
all over the place.
Let's say, hypothetically,
you used state.Items throughout
your code base, right?
Code base grows, you move that
somewhere else in the state tree, or
you refactor the state tree in some way.
You gotta find all those state.Items and
change them.
Versus if you made a function called
selectItems, and it did that,
use that function everywhere.
And then all of a sudden you change
the shape of your state tree.
You just gotta update that function,
and the rest of your code base will be
resilient and move along and get the hint.
And then you don't have to change things
over and over in your code base, right?
I think a lot of the ways that front end
code bases break down on an architectural
level, is they become so much complication
and so many tedium things to change and
things keep breaking,
that you can't ship any new features.
But giving yourself good abstractions,
sometimes even before you think you need
them, you give yourself the ability to
make changes and change your mind later.
I always try to optimize for,
can I change my mind later?
So let's start by creating
ability to get a subtotal.
And we'll kind of get a sense for
how this syntax works.
So, subtotal is totally
just based on the items.
So let's go ahead and we'll do that.
We'll say export const subtotal,
so I selectSubtotal.
And that's gonna be very
similar to what we saw before,
we're gonna start out
with this createSelector.
And really the only things that
the selectSubtotal needs is go ahead and
select all the items.
So this will run the selectItems function,
which will get us the items.
If that array is the exact same array
as the last time it was called, right?
Even in multiple map dispatch to props,
like right now we have one map
dispatch to props, it's using that.
But let's say you're using a very
similar thing throughout the code base.
It will run it once, until that changes,
it will just return the same value.
So as long as everything
in this array is the same.
But we'll take the return result, which
is going to be that array of items and
we'll pass it through.
This is gonna be very similar to what
we had before, which is items.reduce.
I was gonna take the sum and
the item, I could have just copy and
paste this probably as well.
Sum of the item, and we'll say sum
+ item.price * item quantity,
start from 0, right?
And so now this is very similar
to what we had before well.
Anytime we need to compute a subtotal,
this will work.
And we'll only do this math once
until the array changes again.
Cool, let's go ahead and
let's try the other two as well,
just to kinda get some muscle memory.
So selectTipAmount involves two things.
It needs the subtotal, right,
which we already have a selector for.
And then it needs the selectTipPercentage,
So you can start to build these
on top of each other, right?
As each one can stand on
the shoulders of the previous one.
And again, if this hasn't changed,
and this hasn't changed,
then we'll cache the result of
this next selector as well.
So we'll say export const and
we'll say selectTipAmount.
Now will again be create selector and
again,
what are the two things this cares about?
Well, it cares about the results
of selectSubtotal and
it cares about the results
of selectTipAmount.
And with that, oops, not selectTipAmount,
selectSubtotal and selectTipPercentage.
Right, and with that the two
results will be the subtotal from
the first argument in the array.
And the second argument in the array
will be the tip percentage.
And then we can simply add
those two things together.
Right, and then finally the last one
that we had was export const total,
or now it's gonna be selectTotal,
will be create selector.
So this one now needs to know about
the subtotal and the tip amount.
So this is again standing on
previous selectors that we wrote.
Looking at this one and this one,
these have the same results.
This will always return
the same result as well.
So we'll selectSubtotal and
we'll selectTipAmount.
And that's just adding them.
So this will give us our subtotal,
subtotal + tipAmount.
Great, so now we have these in place,
we can swap these out in our map
state to props really easily.
So let's go ahead and try that out.
And now instead of doing all this logic
here, we can get rid of all of this.
And we're gonna say const subtotal =
selectSubtotal based on the state.
Const tipAmount, =
selectTipAmount based on the state.
Const total = selectTotal
based on the state.
>> You've made a typo in
calculations in selectors.
>> All right, where is it?
>> It seems like we need to multiply
subtotal and tip percentage.
>> Yep, perfect, thank you.
Not good at math.
I used to be a seventh grade teacher.
So, you think.
All right, cool.
We can see that everything
still works as expected.
We'll go modify this a little bit.
We see we're recalculating these values.